---
layout: gio/gio-sub-dcs.njk
title: "Notes: June 2016 DCS GIS Solutions Group Meeting"
author: Felicia Retiz, Deputy GIO
bodyClass: dcs-meeting-notes
abstract:
    The GIS Solutions Group meeting notes from June 2016
tags: GIO, Data Sharing, GIS, Geospatial, DIR, DCS
---

# {{title}}

### Date: June 16, 2016 | 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm 

**Location:** DIR Conference Room # 1 (Lavaca Room)

**Meeting Chair:**  Richard Wade, TWDB/TNRIS  

**Participants:**  Ed Kelly, DIR Co-chair | Monica Watt, CSEC | Raj Nadkarni, TCEQ | Kim Ludeke, TPWD |  Michael Chamberlain, TXDOT | Andrew Mellon, DPS | Scot Friedman, GLO | Alex Sanders, GLO | Jeff Perkins, GLO |  Susan Seet, CSEC | Greg Smithhart, TCEQ | Michael Zugelder, TXDOT | Felicia Retiz, TWDB | Gayla Mullins, TWDB | Rob Aanstoos, TWDB

**Other attendees:**  Brooks Myers, Michael Kersey, DIR;

**Meeting Attendees:** Richard Wade, Rob  Aanstoos, Kyle Campbell, Kara Manton, Ingrid Olson (DIR), Raj, Felicia, Michael Kersey, Kim Ludeke, Greg Smithhart, Monica Watt, Adam w/ TxDOT, Stephanie

*****

## Welcome and Introductions
- Welcomed all. 
- Ed Kelly represented by Ms. Olson	Richard Wade
- Google Imagery Service and AppGeo Appliance Updates
- Kyle reviewed flights
- Kara reviewed usage	Kyle Campbell/Kara Manton

### Discussion of Flights and imagery after Kyle and Kara left 
Raj proposal to set thresholds to not have to buy imagery that is less than 8 months old.

- Suburban and rural are every other year
- Effort and labor to review more frequent flights.
- Decided a couple of meetings ago to have TNRIS review data.
- We have no control over what Google flies, but we do have control of the imagery that we purchase.
- we may choose not to review more frequent flights in which we would basically be doint QA for google. 
- What is reviewed should be based on the needs specified by GIS SG.
- Google uses sections. State used counties. We can accept a portion of a section.
- Shapefiles will give an indicator of what has been flown and allow a projection of what will be flown.
- RW: TNRIS will notify anything more recent than 8 months. Also notify on anything approaching end of 3 year life span.
- Feedback on chart. Generally no keen interest, but interest in renewing sets approaching 3 years.
- Special considerations for emergencies.	
	
## Governor’s Report v 1.8 Discussion
- Report v 1.8 Distributed
- Thanks for the comments and feedback.
- Looking for input on pecadillos and any thoughts for discussions among several agencies.
- Next major release 2.0 is intended to be more widely distributed. No date yet, but in July.
- Veg map and strat map are ongoing, but now complete.
- No branding name for the core set of shared data layers. 
- New mindset about what data is available from which agency and used how.
- Cloud pilot expansion to other agencies.
- Mention of future technologies ... THE FUTURE... moving forward
- Ask Tere Shade to present on Hybrid Cloud Services (HSC) at GIS. (Greg Smithhart at TCEQ). Group requested that she present on HSC. – Can we invite Capital Metro? (Stephanie)
- Standard GIS workstation configurations – recommended checking with John Van Horn. Configs for tablets, laptops, etc.

## Group Discussion
- Use of needs rather than “issues”
- Integration with other reports.
- Big business functions. Really want SG member to look at where you are and are not mentioned in the impacts portion of each need.
- e.g. TPWD: LIDAR for vegetation mapping.
- Over providing detail is better than under providing.
- Also, notify Rob if agencies do not want to be included.
- Want to get the right language and text to describe agency’s business.
- Intent is for the report to accurately reflect agencies successes and needs.
- Land Parcel needs: currently TPWD and TCEQ – wording could be improved. Not just air quality impact, but if there’s a disaster we need to know where and what.
- Recommendations. Need to establish GIO in existence as first step. Recommendations do suggest what state agencies should do. Request to verify accuracy and on target for recommendations.	
	
## Update on DCS GIS Data Acquisition Funding Concept

- TWDB has approached DIR leadership about the potential to use DCS for all data funding not just GIS.	
		

## Last Topic: Restructuring and GIS SG

- Agenda formulated by people in this group.
- Look at things at a state level, not just agency.
- Issues focused, not just meeting for the sake of meeting.
- Time to make this group be the GIS Solution Group for the state as it is intended to be.

## Agenda topics next:
- HCS (hybrid cloud services)
- Configurations
- New technology initiatives
- Consider looking at GIS SG charter language	
