---
layout: gio/gio-sub-dcs.njk
title: "Notes: May 2016 DCS GIS Solutions Group Meeting"
author: Felicia Retiz, Deputy GIO
bodyClass: dcs-meeting-notes
abstract:
    The GIS Solutions Group, established spring 2015, meets monthly to discuss projects and solutions related to GIS services procured through the Data Services Center. 
tags: GIO, Data Sharing, GIS, Geospatial, DIR, DCS
---

# {{title}}

### Date: May 17, 2016 | 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm  

**Location:** DIR Conference Room # 4 (Congress Room)

**Meeting Chair:**  Richard Wade, TWDB/TNRIS  
**Co-chair**: Ed Kelly, DIR Co-chair  

**Participants:**  Ed Kelly, DIR Co-chair | Monica Watt, CSEC | Raj Nadkarni, TCEQ | Kim Ludeke, TPWD |  Michael Chamberlain, TXDOT | Andrew Mellon, DPS | Scot Friedman, GLO | Alex Sanders, GLO | Jeff Perkins, GLO |  Susan Seet, CSEC | Greg Smithhart, TCEQ | Michael Zugelder, TXDOT | Felicia Retiz, TWDB | Gayla Mullins, TWDB | Rob Aanstoos, TWDB

**Other attendees:**  Brooks Myers, Tere Shade, Michael Kersey, Dave Ballinger, DIR;

**Meeting Attendees:** Richard Wade, Ed Kelly, Monica Watt , Kara Manton, Kim Ludecke, Raj Nadkarni, Rob Aanstoos, Brooks Myers, Susan Seet, Gayla Mullins, Greg Smithhart, Michael Kersey, Chad Lersch, Tere Shade, Kate Fite 

## Welcome and Introductions

Richard Wade opened the meeting with introductions around the room.

## Contract Update
**Tere Shade provided updates.**

- DIR has finalized T&Cs for google flyovers. Tere Shade will send an update to group. It is T&C for google imagery and platform.
- DIR now processing PO for estimated cost of flyovers between now and 8/31/2017.  
- Contract signed yesterday. Goes through 8/31/2017. 

## Cost Model Update
- Richard Wade asked Chad Lersch to talk about the cost model.
- Chad: DIR financial people really keen on aligning cost model with usage.
- Model has been developed that captures requests.
- Expect to have a better snapshot going forward.
- At some point we are going to snap a chaulk line.  It will probably be sometime in June or July of 2017 in advance of 8/31/2017 start date.
- Recommendation that people take some time to stabilize usage in advance of usage based costs, by reviewing actual usage. 

## Governor’s Report Update

**Rob Aanstoos and Richard Wade provided an update on the Governor’s Report:**

- Lot of progress on report.
- Continue drafting. There is still time to submit more feedback or if something new comes up.
- TNRIS will be engaging in some follow-up to make certain that issues are mapped by agencies.
- It is still a work in progress. 
- Middle/end of June slated to release to a wider audience. 
- Hope for it to be out a week before this next meeting. '


## Discussion Items

- GIS SG member invited to send agenda topics in advance of meeting. Start working on agenda generally 10 days in advance of meeting.
- Possibly expand GIS SG topics beyond Google e.g. how to spend any overage funds on behalf of the state, procuring imagery from other sources.
- StratMap: currently has 7 approve vendors out of 17. Remaining are still in negotiation phase with DIR
- GeoRodeo is this Friday.  
- Interagency data transparency group has met. 
- Survey being created for IT directors on open data. 

*****

## Next Meeting: June 16, 2016, 2:30 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.

