---
layout: gio/gio-sub-dcs.njk
title: "Notes: November 2016 DCS GIS Solutions Group Meeting"
author: Felicia Retiz, Deputy GIO
bodyClass: dcs-meeting-notes
abstract:
    The GIS Solutions Group meeting notes from November 2016
tags: GIO, Data Sharing, GIS, Geospatial, DIR, DCS
---

# {{title}}

### Date: November 15, 2016 ● 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm 

**Location:** DIR Conference Room # 1 (Lavaca Room)

**Meeting Chair:**  Richard Wade, TWDB/TNRIS  

**Participants:**  Ed Kelly, DIR Co-chair; Monica Watt, CSEC; Raj Nadkarni, TCEQ; Stephanie Long, TPWD; Chairman Rogers, TXDOT; Chris Bardash, TXDOT; Scot Friedman, GLO; Vonda Payne, CSEC; Greg Smithhart, TCEQ; Jenn Sylvester; Kara Manton; 


**Other Attendees:** Brooks Myers, DIR

**Next Meeting:**  December 13, 2016


## Welcome and Introductions
- Welcomed everyone; thanked those that attended the 2016 Texas GIS Forum. Received good feedback; still accepting evaluations.
- Attendee introductions

## Google Imagery Deliverables (Kara Manton and Richard Wade)

- Discussed using Google’s Tile API, which is typically sold to commercial space
- Google is ok with giving Texas access to Tile API
- The Google part would cost $900K per year (doesn’t include the appliance part)
- Imagery would be fresh and current
- All images kept three years plus the current year; historic imagery would always be available upon request beyond the three years
- Participants questioned if three years storage is enough; could move to a longterm cloud  storage (Glacier)
- Would allow use of licenses without buy-ups
- Goal is that all of Texas will have been flown by the third year; imagery boundaries include all of Texas and could include some of Mexico and into the Gulf, depending on the zoom
- The Tile API is ready for testing, but we will leave as is until a decision is made
- We need to work on an alert system to notify of any updates
- Must be clear with Google about the metadata
- Richard Wade and Felicia Retiz will start making contact with state, regional, and local partners in January to confirm the users
- Richard Wade and Brooks Myers stated that if no one has any objections/issues, it will be turned on December 1; no objections were raised at this meeting
- We will ensure to document any changes to the agreement

## Parcel Study Report Schedule (Jenn Sylvester and Richard Wade)
- Conducting statewide survey to determine what appraisal districts have for data sharing, charging, costs, if it benefits us, etc.
- Have researched various states – Massachusetts, North Carolina; some cities update weekly, some quarterly, some never; some brought in vendors to do it for them
- Will prepare bulleted write-ups and present monthly to this group
- Texas is conducting an online survey with state agencies to determine how they collect the data; may visit agencies to receive one-on-one input
- Ultimate result is a data collection tool

## Planet State and Local Monitoring Program (Richard Wade)
- Planet Labs has 30 satellites in space which fly over a couple of times a day, worldwide, shooting imagery at 3.5 meters
- The contract is just for the Texas area
- Need clarification if there is an extra cost color infrared (CIR)
- State would need a three-month timespan to determine how this compares to 30 days
- Need to determine if there’s an on-demand feature we could turn on at-will or if it only runs every three days
- Compare Planet Labs vs. Google
- Richard will contact Planet Labs and see if there is an on-demand feature and maybe a few other model scenarios
- TPWD stated law enforcement would have an on-demand need

## InfoGroup (Richard Wade)
- Richard Wade will schedule another group meeting to review InfoGroup’s data (they are pursuing an enterprise license)
- Cost would be $500,000 to use their data at the state level and recurring each year afterwards
- Attendees will ask their agencies if any are interested (TXDOT, GLO, TPWD, and TWDB said yes)

### Next meeting scheduled for December 13, 2016, from 2:30 – 4:00 p.m.


