---
layout: gio/gio-sub-dcs.njk
title: "Notes: June 2018 DCS GIS Solutions Group Meeting"
author: Felicia Retiz, Deputy GIO
bodyClass: dcs-meeting-notes
abstract:
    The GIS Solutions Group meeting notes from June 2018
tags: GIO, Data Sharing, GIS, Geospatial, DIR, DCS
---

# {{title}}

### Date: May 29, 2018 ● 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm

**Location:** DIR Congress Conference Room, CR1, W. P. Clements Building, 13th floor

**Meeting Chair:** Richard Wade, TWDB/TNRIS; Ed Kelly, DIR – Co-chair

**Participants:**  Felicia Retiz, Gayla Mullins, Ilyanna Kadich, TWDB/TNRIS; Raj Nadkarni, TCEQ; Chris Bardash, TxDOT; Scot Friedman, GLO; Jenn Sylvester, AppGeo


## Welcome and Introductions


## Parcel and Address Point Project Overview - Ilyanna Kadich
- Ilyanna's role as educator - to educate consumers on the purpose/objective of the two priority data sets.
- Parcel Data
    + Working with GLO to update the 18 coastal county parcels.
    + Met with Core Logic, Dallas Central Appraisal District, BIS Consulting, and Harris Govern so far.
    + Attended the Texas Demographer's Conference in May.
- Address Points
    + Met with Commission on State Emergency Communications and 911 Datamasters to discuss the current climate of 911 GIS.
    + Initially, the address point data developed for the Water Data Model would supply the National Address Database. Currently reviewing their standard and requirements.
- Stakeholder committee will be initiated for interested groups.
    + Assign those within agencies who use the data
    + Project manager to be assigned
    + One page logic model for distribution

## Google Cloud Training - Group Discussion
Training interest so far:
    - TCEQ - 4
    - TPWD - 3
    - TNRIS - 3
    - CSEC - 2
    - TxGLO - 2
- Group discussed re-addressing Google Cloud training until after the calendar year to ensure available funds.


## Topics for GIS SG Consideration - Group Discussion
- Group discussed upcoming Hurricane season, there may be a need to bring up topics and proposals through the BELC meeting for data/knowledge sharing.

•	Next meeting – Tuesday, July 2,2018 2:30 – 4:00 p.m
